bevy-shaders-cheatsheet.md, before:

# Bevy-Shader-Cheatsheet.

I've found the whole 'shader-land' story around Bevy to be pretty impenetrable, this is a small attempt to collect some of my notes -- made public in the hope it will alleviate the potential suffering of others.

You will see single-letter-variables in shaders everywhere! Don't contribute to the problem, be part of the solution.

______________________________________________________________________

## Contents:

- [noise](#noise)
- [resolution](#resolution)
- [sdf-shapes](#sdf-shapes)
- [time](#time)
- [pixels](#pixels)
- [uvs](#uvs)
- [uuid-generation](#uuid-generation)
- [get data into your shader from bevy](#get-data-into-your-shader)
- [smoothstep](#smoothstep)
- [step](#step)
- [glow](#glow)
- [glsl syntax differences](#syntax-diffs)
- [imports](#importable)

______________________________________________________________________

# uvs:

```rust
// 'uv's are in the MeshVertexOutput
#import bevy_pbr::forward_io::VertexOutput

@fragment
fn fragment(in: VertexOutput) -> vec4<f32> {
	// usually you'll see them used in your fragment shaders thusly:
	let uv = in.uv;
  let normalised_uv = (in.uv.xy * 2.0) - 1.0; // If you want 0,0 to be at the 'center' of your Mesh's geometry.

	return vec4f(uv.x, uv.y, 0.0, 1.0);
}
```

______________________________________________________________________

# resolution:

You'll usually need this when you go to say, draw a `sdCircle` or other `sdf` shape and suddenly realise that it's squashed because the aspect ratio of the window is _not_ being accounted for.

- Most of what you need is in [View](https://github.com/bevyengine/bevy/blob/154a49044514fb21b0f83f4f077d76380e12a8a8/crates/bevy_render/src/view/view.wgsl#L19)
- Don't forget the `@group(0) @binding(0) var<uniform> view: View;` to make the uniform available.

```rust
#import bevy_render::view View

@group(0) @binding(0) var<uniform> view: View;

@fragment
fn fragment(in: VertexOutput) -> vec4<f32> {
  	// example, shader-toyesk normalise and account for aspect ratio:
    var uv = (in.uv.xy * 2.0) - 1.0;
    let resolution = view.viewport.zw;
    uv.x *= resolution.x / resolution.y;
    uv *= rotate2D(PI / -2.0); // Our uvs are by default a -1,-1 in uppermost left cnr, this rotates you around.

    // your code here.


}
```

- [Dunno what `uniform`s are?](https://thebookofshaders.com/03/)

______________________________________________________________________

# time:

```rust
#import bevy_pbr::mesh_view_bindings globals
#import bevy_pbr::forward_io::VertexOutput

const TAU:f32 =  6.28318530718;

@fragment
fn fragment(in: VertexOutput) -> @location(0) vec4<f32> {
    var uv = (in.uv * 2.0) - 1.0;
    var col = vec3f(0.);

    let distance_to_center = vec2(0.25) - uv;
    let angle = atan2(distance_to_center.y, distance_to_center.x);
    let radius = length(distance_to_center) * 2.0;

    col = hsv_to_srgb(vec3f((angle / TAU) + globals.time / 3.0, radius, 1.0));
    return vec4f(col, 1.0);
}

// From the bevy source code
fn hsv_to_srgb(c: vec3<f32>) -> vec3<f32> {
    let K = vec4(1.0, 2.0 / 3.0, 1.0 / 3.0, 3.0);
    let p = abs(fract(c.xxx + K.xyz) * 6.0 - K.www);
    return c.z * mix(K.xxx, clamp(p - K.xxx, vec3(0.0), vec3(1.0)), c.y);
}
```

> NOTE: if you're in 2d, the globals is in a diff spot: `#import bevy_sprite::mesh2d_view_bindings   globals`

______________________________________________________________________

# pixels

- Want to get a line the width of a single pixel?

> from `assets/shaders/shadertoy-ports/water-caustic-tileable.wgsl`

```rust
#import bevy_render::view  View
@group(0) @binding(0) var<uniform> view: View;
    
@fragment
fn fragment(in: VertexOutput) -> @location(0) vec4<f32> {
    let time: f32 = globals.time;
    var uv: vec2<f32> = in.uv;
   
    // Shows a yellow grid, where the lines are 1px, calculated by looking at your the available uvs.
    let pixel: vec2<f32> = vec2<f32>(2.0) / view.viewport.zw;
    uv *= 2.0;
    let f: f32 = floor(time * 0.5 % 2.0);
    let first: vec2<f32> = step(pixel, uv) * f;
    uv = step(fract(uv), pixel);
    colour = mix(colour, vec3<f32>(1.0, 1.0, 0.0), (uv.x + uv.y) * first.x * first.y);

    return vec4<f32>(colour, 1.0);
}
```

______________________________________________________________________

# sdf-shapes

- [munrocket's 3d](https://gist.github.com/munrocket/f247155fc22ecb8edf974d905c677de1)
- [munrocket's 2d](https://gist.github.com/munrocket/30e645d584b5300ee69295e54674b3e4)

______________________________________________________________________

# noise

- [munrocket's noise](https://gist.github.com/munrocket/236ed5ba7e409b8bdf1ff6eca5dcdc39)

______________________________________________________________________

# uuid-generation:

- you need `uuid`s for the ECS, whenever you're deriving `TypeUuid` on stuff you plan on putting in there (which we do plan on doing)

```rust
#[derive(AsBindGroup, TypeUuid, TypePath, Debug, Clone)]
#[uuid = "c74e039a-3df7-4f71-bd1d-7fe4b25a2230"]
struct MyShader{}
```

Here's an [online-generator](https://www.uuidgenerator.net/), that I use a bit.
_if you're feeling lazy here's 25 generated earlier_

```shell
f6395028-088c-4d0c-bf79-9bb238b79768
83db0271-2867-4477-9cad-afd89bd93abc
688566d8-3ca3-4401-80bf-19db02f7ab8c
42ecf202-ab31-47d0-99e8-62cc59489b29
4b919679-6311-4cc9-a374-131500abc512
ff12d937-9a01-4abe-91cf-13457d33df80
21f7e8f1-c950-409b-a2eb-8457e10d0070
f5f0c9a4-9834-4edf-ae47-071a40f9eafd
2ba4a8b0-d4b4-4f00-a6a0-389afc4014ce
c6d009c9-c5f2-41c9-8068-b6f68fd06969
6907e7a9-6a12-444d-9923-e347f609ca95
c8b1af9a-b54c-42e2-b479-f52e0ed6f4da
87b235fb-4451-4de5-a843-e7782292b9b3
d4e7bf47-b6d3-4ff9-86ce-874b7d32743e
8efd22a3-17b2-43de-bac1-a064142c96ae
2a144e21-4e01-42d7-a2e8-5078793fb16c
29746aa9-e63e-424c-a951-ef14b0466946
ed5396f9-26cc-4f40-9123-2b302d729ecf
c1887ade-4669-4c96-ac08-2a1eb2ebfb33
14d87951-1436-4055-8130-df22881a6774
2b72b9be-4d3f-4f21-bf4f-589032bb43d5
1f74affc-1fd3-49e5-944d-969f4d253e64
cca52d9e-2bd4-4fc0-b058-7bd3ddd1aba5
6feca34e-6fa7-4fa4-a7c8-d914382108ba
fd9ec163-e144-478d-a085-702d028f1149
```

or, you can use [`quuidy`](https://github.com/alphastrata/quuidy):

```shell
cargo install quuidy
quuidy -n 10
```

______________________________________________________________________

# get-data-into-your-shader

If none of that makes sense: I wrote a [blog-post](https://jeremyfwebb.ninja/src/blog_posts/wgsl_basics), on this.
Take this shader code [dotted-line-shader](https://github.com/alphastrata/shadplay/blob/develop/assets/shaders/dotted_line.wgsl)
Then use this [rust-binding-code](https://github.com/alphastrata/shadplay/blob/develop/src/shader_utils.rs). (copied below for the lazy)

```rust
// in src/YOURMODULE.rs
#[derive(AsBindGroup, TypeUuid, TypePath, Debug, Clone)]
#[uuid = "c74e039a-3df7-4f71-bd1d-7fe4b25a2230"]
struct DottedLineShader {
    #[uniform(100)] // Make the uniform a big(ish) number to avoid clashing with existing bindings.
    uniforms: Holder, //RGBA
}

/// Simplified holding struct to make passing across uniform(n) simpler.
#[derive(ShaderType, Default, Clone, Debug)]
struct Holder {
    tint: Color,
    /// How wide do you want the line as a % of its available uv space: 0.5 would be 50% of the surface of the geometry
    line_width: f32,
    /// How many segments (transparent 'cuts') do you want?
    segments: f32,
    /// How fast do you want the animation to be? set 0.0 to disable.
    phase: f32,
    /// How far spaced apart do you want these lines?
    line_spacing: f32,
}

impl Material for DottedLineShader {
    fn fragment_shader() -> ShaderRef {
        "shaders/dotted_line.wgsl".into()
    }
}
```

In your `main.rs`:

```rust
app.add_plugins(MaterialPlugin::<YOURMODULEPATH::DottedLineShader>::default());
```

______________________________________________________________________

# smoothstep

smoothstep interpolates between two 'edges', `leftedge`, sometimes called `edge0` and `rightedge`, sometimes called `edge1`, for a given `x`.
i.e make the shape of the _below_ graph, where all values are clamped between those two edges.
So if your `x` is \<= to leftedge smoothstep returns you a 0.
if your `x` is >= to the rightedge, smoothstep returns you a 1.

![smoothstep](https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/5/57/Smoothstep_and_Smootherstep.svg/220px-Smoothstep_and_Smootherstep.svg.png)

or,

![smoothstep](readme_assets/screenshots/smootstep-concept.png)

or,
The smoothstep function takes three parameters:

```
    LeftEdge: The lower edge of the range.
    RightEdge: The upper edge of the range.
    x: The input value that you want to interpolate between those above Edges.
```

- [lil-book-of-shaders](https://thebookofshaders.com/glossary/?search=smoothstep)'s explanation

______________________________________________________________________

# step

`fn step(limit, value)` any `value` under the `limit` will return a `0.0`, anything above `value` a `1.0`;
available on `f32, vecN<T>` i.e all `vec2/3/4` types with any `isize/usize/f32` etc.

> can be useful to replace `if` statements, because a numerical solve is (rumoured to be) superior in performance to a branch:

```rust
// From the dotted_line.wgsl mentioned elsewhere in this guide.
    // draw x line
    if abs(uv.x) < 0.025{
        uv += t * 0.5;
        // segment the line, only tint the areas we want
        var uv_segmented: vec2<f32> = fract(uv * 3.0) * 0.05;
        let step_y: f32 = step(0.025, abs(uv_segmented.y)); // you can read this as `if (abs(uv_segmented.y) > 0.025)/*...*/ ``
        col += vec4f(0.23, 0.88, 0.238, 1.0)* step_y;
    }
```

[code](https://github.com/alphastrata/shadplay/blob/develop/assets/shaders/shadertoy-ports/dotted_line.wgsl)

______________________________________________________________________

# syntax diffs

> NOTE: this is not an exhaustive list!

- `glsl` has `mod` but in `wgsl` you need to use `%`
- bindings in `glsl` by default are mutable, not so in `wgsl`, use `var` for mutable `let` for immutable.
- in `glsl` you'll see the `in` keyword, which do to a similar thing with pointers in wgsl:

```rust
fn testing (uv: ptr<function, vec2<f32>>) {
    (*uv).x = 4.0;
}
```

- You'll often see glsl functions that take a value to mutate, and they return nothing: this is invalid in wgsl so this:

```glsl
void pR(inout vec2 p, float a) {
	p = cos(a)*p + sin(a)*vec2(p.y, -p.x);
}
```

becomes:

```rust
fn pR(out_point: vec2<f32>, angle: f32)-> vec2f {
    var point = out_point;
    point = cos(angle) * point + sin(angle) * vec2<f32>(point.y, -point.x);
    return point;
}
```

> from https://www.shadertoy.com/view/4t2cR1

- in `glsl`, when declaring structs, you terminate the lines of the fields with `;`, in wgsl you use `,`so:
  this:

```glsl
  struct geometry {
  float dist;
  vec3 hit;
  int iterations;
  };
```

becomes:

```rust
struct Geometry {
    dist: f32,
    hit: vec3<f32>,
    iterations: i32,
}
```

- You may be tempted to do multipart assignments on the rhs, like this:

  `O += 0.2 / (abs(length(I = p / (r + r - p).y) * 80.0 - i) + 40.0 / r.y)` but, this
  `I = `
  ... is INVALID, you will see this a lot in shadertoy, in particular when fancy [shader-wizards are attempting to not summon Cthulhu by exceeding the 300char limit](https://www.shadertoy.com/view/msjXRK), but in `.wgsl` land you gotta do the assignment outside.

- `	vec3 u = 1.-(--f)*f*f*f*-f;` _Note, the `--` is not legal in wgsl_, so don't do it instead do:

```rust
    f -= vec3<f32>(1.0, 1.0, 1.0); // Decrement each component of the vector by 1
    var u: vec3<f32> = 1.0 - f * f * f * f * -f;
```

-- single inlined if/else's with an assignment i.e,

```rust
let functionSign: f32 = if mp.dist < 0.0 { -1.0 } else { 1.0 };
```

are not allowed, you need to do this instead:

```rust
    var functionSign: f32;
    if mp.dist < 0.0 {
        functionSign = -1.0;
    } else {
        functionSign = 1.0;
    };
```

______________________________________________________________________

# importable

> [_how I came about this knowledge_](https://github.com/bevyengine/naga_oil/issues/60#issuecomment-1748414091)

A few things to note on imports:

1. There are multiple syntaxes supported (I do not know for how long this will stay the case)
1. The 'new' way, will throw _`false`_ errors in `wgsl-analyzer`, which if you're not already using--YOU SHOULD BE!

### Example importing:

- In the shader code YOU ARE WRITING:

> source file: `src/shader_utils/common.wgsl`

```rust
#import shadplay::shader_utils::common NEG_HALF_PI, shaderToyDefault, rotate2D
```

NOTE: this shader source (i.e the `.wgsl` code you are wanting to be importable), MUST live inside your crate, it cannot live above the `src` directory your `main.rs`/`lib.rs` etc live in.

- In the shader code that is your library ( the stuff you want to define, and import into the above)

```rust
#define_import_path shadplay::shader_utils::common
```

\_it appears, that you can basically name these whatever you like, the convention observed in the bevy engine's codebase is what I've done above.-

The other way:

- Say the `common.wgsl` was alongside your shader, in the shadplay repo that may look like this:

```shell
/shaders
├──/common.wgsl      <<< YOUR LIBRARY
├──/myshader.wgsl    <<< THAT YOU WANT TO IMPORT HERE
├──/myshader_2d.wgsl <<< THAT YOU WANT TO IMPORT HERE
```

The asset-path syntax can be used:

- In the shader code YOU ARE WRITING:

> source file: `src/shader_utils/common.wgsl`

```rust
import it using asset-path syntax: #import "shaders/common.wgsl"
```

- You don't need to do the `#define` shinnenagans in the `common.wgsl`.

- one _may_ prefer this style if you have the `assets/shaders/*.wgsl` layout in your project.

## Some very useful imports from bevy:

Famous mathematical constants are used prolifically in shaders (at least on shadertoy), there are many in the [`bevy_pbr::utils`](https://github.com/bevyengine/bevy/blob/8b888871520fa9b150a91609087a1d1659775d72/crates/bevy_pbr/src/render/utils.wgsl#L4) module, and there are even more in the [`shadplay::common::common`](src/shader_utils/common.wgsl), you can see examples of these throughout the shaders in `assets/shaders`.

Commit message:

B E V Y F O U R T E E N (#92)
* testing nix

* chore: fucking finally

* fix: found it.

* fix: fix toolchain.toml

* chore: update readme

* bump pipeline to nightly

* add my .envrc

* bump deps prior to make 0.14.0 easiers

* update shaderbook

* wip: few of our key deps are still behind, so we're using the open PRs for their 0.14.0 support

* Update Cargo.toml

bump example deps

* update toml

* fix: missing deps

* fix: missing deps

* fix: it runs!

* chore: update bevy shaders doc

* chore: update bevy shaders doc

* wip: almost done...

* fix: mesh2d_vertex_output is no longer from forward_io for 2d shaders

* fix: more meshvertex for 2d changes

* fix: update some small parts of cheatsheet

* fix: update some small parts of cheatsheet 2/n

---------

Co-authored-by: Jer <jeremy@avalon.space>

bevy-shaders-cheatsheet.md, after:

# Bevy-Shader-Cheatsheet.

I've found the whole 'shader-land' story around Bevy to be pretty impenetrable, this is a small attempt to collect some of my notes -- made public in the hope it will alleviate the potential suffering of others.

You will see single-letter-variables in shaders everywhere! Don't contribute to the problem, be part of the solution.

______________________________________________________________________

## Contents:

- [noise](#noise)
- [resolution](#resolution)
- [sdf-shapes](#sdf-shapes)
- [time](#time)
- [pixels](#pixels)
- [uvs](#uvs)
- [uuid-generation](#uuid-generation)
- [get data into your shader from bevy](#get-data-into-your-shader)
- [smoothstep](#smoothstep)
- [step](#step)
- [glow](#glow)
- [glsl syntax differences](#syntax-diffs)
- [imports](#importable)

______________________________________________________________________

# uvs:

```rust
// 'uv's are in the MeshVertexOutput
#import bevy_pbr::forward_io::VertexOutput

@fragment
fn fragment(in: VertexOutput) -> vec4<f32> {
	// usually you'll see them used in your fragment shaders thusly:
	let uv = in.uv;
  let normalised_uv = (in.uv.xy * 2.0) - 1.0; // If you want 0,0 to be at the 'center' of your Mesh's geometry.

	return vec4f(uv.x, uv.y, 0.0, 1.0);
}
```

______________________________________________________________________

# resolution:

You'll usually need this when you go to say, draw a `sdCircle` or other `sdf` shape and suddenly realise that it's squashed because the aspect ratio of the window is _not_ being accounted for.

- Most of what you need is in [View](https://github.com/bevyengine/bevy/blob/154a49044514fb21b0f83f4f077d76380e12a8a8/crates/bevy_render/src/view/view.wgsl#L19)
- Don't forget the `@group(0) @binding(0) var<uniform> view: View;` to make the uniform available.

```rust
#import bevy_render::view View

@group(0) @binding(0) var<uniform> view: View;

@fragment
fn fragment(in: VertexOutput) -> vec4<f32> {
  	// example, shader-toyesk normalise and account for aspect ratio:
    var uv = (in.uv.xy * 2.0) - 1.0;
    let resolution = view.viewport.zw;
    uv.x *= resolution.x / resolution.y;
    uv *= rotate2D(PI / -2.0); // Our uvs are by default a -1,-1 in uppermost left cnr, this rotates you around.

    // your code here.


}
```

- [Dunno what `uniform`s are?](https://thebookofshaders.com/03/)

______________________________________________________________________

# time:

```rust
#import bevy_pbr::mesh_view_bindings globals
#import bevy_pbr::forward_io::VertexOutput

const TAU:f32 =  6.28318530718;

@fragment
fn fragment(in: VertexOutput) -> @location(0) vec4<f32> {
    var uv = (in.uv * 2.0) - 1.0;
    var col = vec3f(0.);

    let distance_to_center = vec2(0.25) - uv;
    let angle = atan2(distance_to_center.y, distance_to_center.x);
    let radius = length(distance_to_center) * 2.0;

    col = hsv_to_srgb(vec3f((angle / TAU) + globals.time / 3.0, radius, 1.0));
    return vec4f(col, 1.0);
}

// From the bevy source code
fn hsv_to_srgb(c: vec3<f32>) -> vec3<f32> {
    let K = vec4(1.0, 2.0 / 3.0, 1.0 / 3.0, 3.0);
    let p = abs(fract(c.xxx + K.xyz) * 6.0 - K.www);
    return c.z * mix(K.xxx, clamp(p - K.xxx, vec3(0.0), vec3(1.0)), c.y);
}
```

> NOTE: if you're in 2d, the globals is in a diff spot: `#import bevy_sprite::mesh2d_view_bindings   globals`
> NOTE: #import bevy_sprite::mesh2d_vertex_output::VertexOutput is also NOT the same as bevy_pbr::forward_io::VertexOutput, make sure you're using the right one!

______________________________________________________________________

# pixels

- Want to get a line the width of a single pixel?

> from `assets/shaders/shadertoy-ports/water-caustic-tileable.wgsl`

```rust
#import bevy_render::view  View
@group(0) @binding(0) var<uniform> view: View;
    
@fragment
fn fragment(in: VertexOutput) -> @location(0) vec4<f32> {
    let time: f32 = globals.time;
    var uv: vec2<f32> = in.uv;
   
    // Shows a yellow grid, where the lines are 1px, calculated by looking at your the available uvs.
    let pixel: vec2<f32> = vec2<f32>(2.0) / view.viewport.zw;
    uv *= 2.0;
    let f: f32 = floor(time * 0.5 % 2.0);
    let first: vec2<f32> = step(pixel, uv) * f;
    uv = step(fract(uv), pixel);
    colour = mix(colour, vec3<f32>(1.0, 1.0, 0.0), (uv.x + uv.y) * first.x * first.y);

    return vec4<f32>(colour, 1.0);
}
```

______________________________________________________________________

# sdf-shapes

- [munrocket's 3d](https://gist.github.com/munrocket/f247155fc22ecb8edf974d905c677de1)
- [munrocket's 2d](https://gist.github.com/munrocket/30e645d584b5300ee69295e54674b3e4)

______________________________________________________________________

# noise

- [munrocket's noise](https://gist.github.com/munrocket/236ed5ba7e409b8bdf1ff6eca5dcdc39)

______________________________________________________________________

# uuid-generation:

- you need `uuid`s for the ECS, whenever you're deriving `TypeUuid` on stuff you plan on putting in there (which we do plan on doing)

```rust
#[derive(AsBindGroup, TypeUuid, TypePath, Debug, Clone)]
#[uuid = "c74e039a-3df7-4f71-bd1d-7fe4b25a2230"]
struct MyShader{}
```

Here's an [online-generator](https://www.uuidgenerator.net/), that I use a bit.
_if you're feeling lazy here's 25 generated earlier_

```shell
f6395028-088c-4d0c-bf79-9bb238b79768
83db0271-2867-4477-9cad-afd89bd93abc
688566d8-3ca3-4401-80bf-19db02f7ab8c
42ecf202-ab31-47d0-99e8-62cc59489b29
4b919679-6311-4cc9-a374-131500abc512
ff12d937-9a01-4abe-91cf-13457d33df80
21f7e8f1-c950-409b-a2eb-8457e10d0070
f5f0c9a4-9834-4edf-ae47-071a40f9eafd
2ba4a8b0-d4b4-4f00-a6a0-389afc4014ce
c6d009c9-c5f2-41c9-8068-b6f68fd06969
6907e7a9-6a12-444d-9923-e347f609ca95
c8b1af9a-b54c-42e2-b479-f52e0ed6f4da
87b235fb-4451-4de5-a843-e7782292b9b3
d4e7bf47-b6d3-4ff9-86ce-874b7d32743e
8efd22a3-17b2-43de-bac1-a064142c96ae
2a144e21-4e01-42d7-a2e8-5078793fb16c
29746aa9-e63e-424c-a951-ef14b0466946
ed5396f9-26cc-4f40-9123-2b302d729ecf
c1887ade-4669-4c96-ac08-2a1eb2ebfb33
14d87951-1436-4055-8130-df22881a6774
2b72b9be-4d3f-4f21-bf4f-589032bb43d5
1f74affc-1fd3-49e5-944d-969f4d253e64
cca52d9e-2bd4-4fc0-b058-7bd3ddd1aba5
6feca34e-6fa7-4fa4-a7c8-d914382108ba
fd9ec163-e144-478d-a085-702d028f1149
```

or, you can use [`quuidy`](https://github.com/alphastrata/quuidy):

```shell
cargo install quuidy
quuidy -n 10
```

______________________________________________________________________

# get-data-into-your-shader

If none of that makes sense: I wrote a [blog-post](https://jeremyfwebb.ninja/src/blog_posts/wgsl_basics), on this.
Take this shader code [dotted-line-shader](https://github.com/alphastrata/shadplay/blob/develop/assets/shaders/dotted_line.wgsl)
Then use this [rust-binding-code](https://github.com/alphastrata/shadplay/blob/develop/src/shader_utils.rs). (copied below for the lazy)

```rust
// in src/YOURMODULE.rs
#[derive(AsBindGroup, TypeUuid, TypePath, Debug, Clone)]
#[uuid = "c74e039a-3df7-4f71-bd1d-7fe4b25a2230"]
struct DottedLineShader {
    #[uniform(100)] // Make the uniform a big(ish) number to avoid clashing with existing bindings.
    uniforms: Holder, //RGBA
}

/// Simplified holding struct to make passing across uniform(n) simpler.
#[derive(ShaderType, Default, Clone, Debug)]
struct Holder {
    tint: Color,
    /// How wide do you want the line as a % of its available uv space: 0.5 would be 50% of the surface of the geometry
    line_width: f32,
    /// How many segments (transparent 'cuts') do you want?
    segments: f32,
    /// How fast do you want the animation to be? set 0.0 to disable.
    phase: f32,
    /// How far spaced apart do you want these lines?
    line_spacing: f32,
}

impl Material for DottedLineShader {
    fn fragment_shader() -> ShaderRef {
        "shaders/dotted_line.wgsl".into()
    }
}
```

In your `main.rs`:

```rust
app.add_plugins(MaterialPlugin::<YOURMODULEPATH::DottedLineShader>::default());
```

______________________________________________________________________

# smoothstep

smoothstep interpolates between two 'edges', `leftedge`, sometimes called `edge0` and `rightedge`, sometimes called `edge1`, for a given `x`.
i.e make the shape of the _below_ graph, where all values are clamped between those two edges.
So if your `x` is \<= to leftedge smoothstep returns you a 0.
if your `x` is >= to the rightedge, smoothstep returns you a 1.

![smoothstep](https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/5/57/Smoothstep_and_Smootherstep.svg/220px-Smoothstep_and_Smootherstep.svg.png)

or,

![smoothstep](readme_assets/screenshots/smootstep-concept.png)

or,
The smoothstep function takes three parameters:

```
    LeftEdge: The lower edge of the range.
    RightEdge: The upper edge of the range.
    x: The input value that you want to interpolate between those above Edges.
```

- [lil-book-of-shaders](https://thebookofshaders.com/glossary/?search=smoothstep)'s explanation

______________________________________________________________________

# step

`fn step(limit, value)` any `value` under the `limit` will return a `0.0`, anything above `value` a `1.0`;
available on `f32, vecN<T>` i.e all `vec2/3/4` types with any `isize/usize/f32` etc.

> can be useful to replace `if` statements, because a numerical solve is (rumoured to be) superior in performance to a branch:

```rust
// From the dotted_line.wgsl mentioned elsewhere in this guide.
    // draw x line
    if abs(uv.x) < 0.025{
        uv += t * 0.5;
        // segment the line, only tint the areas we want
        var uv_segmented: vec2<f32> = fract(uv * 3.0) * 0.05;
        let step_y: f32 = step(0.025, abs(uv_segmented.y)); // you can read this as `if (abs(uv_segmented.y) > 0.025)/*...*/ ``
        col += vec4f(0.23, 0.88, 0.238, 1.0)* step_y;
    }
```

[code](https://github.com/alphastrata/shadplay/blob/develop/assets/shaders/shadertoy-ports/dotted_line.wgsl)

______________________________________________________________________

# syntax diffs

> NOTE: this is not an exhaustive list!

- `glsl` has `mod` but in `wgsl` you need to use `%`
- bindings in `glsl` by default are mutable, not so in `wgsl`, use `var` for mutable `let` for immutable.
- in `glsl` you'll see the `in` keyword, which do to a similar thing with pointers in wgsl:

```rust
fn testing (uv: ptr<function, vec2<f32>>) {
    (*uv).x = 4.0;
}
```

- You'll often see glsl functions that take a value to mutate, and they return nothing: this is invalid in wgsl so this:

```glsl
void pR(inout vec2 p, float a) {
	p = cos(a)*p + sin(a)*vec2(p.y, -p.x);
}
```

becomes:

```rust
fn pR(out_point: vec2<f32>, angle: f32)-> vec2f {
    var point = out_point;
    point = cos(angle) * point + sin(angle) * vec2<f32>(point.y, -point.x);
    return point;
}
```

> from https://www.shadertoy.com/view/4t2cR1

- in `glsl`, when declaring structs, you terminate the lines of the fields with `;`, in wgsl you use `,`so:
  this:

```glsl
  struct geometry {
  float dist;
  vec3 hit;
  int iterations;
  };
```

becomes:

```rust
struct Geometry {
    dist: f32,
    hit: vec3<f32>,
    iterations: i32,
}
```

- You may be tempted to do multipart assignments on the rhs, like this:

  `O += 0.2 / (abs(length(I = p / (r + r - p).y) * 80.0 - i) + 40.0 / r.y)` but, this
  `I = `
  ... is INVALID, you will see this a lot in shadertoy, in particular when fancy [shader-wizards are attempting to not summon Cthulhu by exceeding the 300char limit](https://www.shadertoy.com/view/msjXRK), but in `.wgsl` land you gotta do the assignment outside.

- `	vec3 u = 1.-(--f)*f*f*f*-f;` _Note, the `--` is not legal in wgsl_, so don't do it instead do:

```rust
    f -= vec3<f32>(1.0, 1.0, 1.0); // Decrement each component of the vector by 1
    var u: vec3<f32> = 1.0 - f * f * f * f * -f;
```

-- single inlined if/else's with an assignment i.e,

```rust
let functionSign: f32 = if mp.dist < 0.0 { -1.0 } else { 1.0 };
```

are not allowed, you need to do this instead:

```rust
    var functionSign: f32;
    if mp.dist < 0.0 {
        functionSign = -1.0;
    } else {
        functionSign = 1.0;
    };
```

______________________________________________________________________

# importable

> [_how I came about this knowledge_](https://github.com/bevyengine/naga_oil/issues/60#issuecomment-1748414091)

A few things to note on imports:

1. There are multiple syntaxes supported (I do not know for how long this will stay the case)
1. The 'new' way, will throw _`false`_ errors in `wgsl-analyzer`, which if you're not already using--YOU SHOULD BE!

### Example importing:

- In the shader code YOU ARE WRITING:

> source file: `src/shader_utils/common.wgsl`

```rust
#import shadplay::shader_utils::common NEG_HALF_PI, shaderToyDefault, rotate2D
```

NOTE: this shader source (i.e the `.wgsl` code you are wanting to be importable), MUST live inside your crate, it cannot live above the `src` directory your `main.rs`/`lib.rs` etc live in.

- In the shader code that is your library ( the stuff you want to define, and import into the above)

```rust
#define_import_path shadplay::shader_utils::common
```

\_it appears, that you can basically name these whatever you like, the convention observed in the bevy engine's codebase is what I've done above.-

The other way:

- Say the `common.wgsl` was alongside your shader, in the shadplay repo that may look like this:

```shell
/shaders
├──/common.wgsl      <<< YOUR LIBRARY
├──/myshader.wgsl    <<< THAT YOU WANT TO IMPORT HERE
├──/myshader_2d.wgsl <<< THAT YOU WANT TO IMPORT HERE
```

The asset-path syntax can be used:

- In the shader code YOU ARE WRITING:

> source file: `src/shader_utils/common.wgsl`

```rust
import it using asset-path syntax: #import "shaders/common.wgsl"
```

- You don't need to do the `#define` shinnenagans in the `common.wgsl`.

- one _may_ prefer this style if you have the `assets/shaders/*.wgsl` layout in your project.

## Some very useful imports from bevy:

Famous mathematical constants are used prolifically in shaders (at least on shadertoy), there are many in the [`bevy_pbr::utils`](https://github.com/bevyengine/bevy/blob/8b888871520fa9b150a91609087a1d1659775d72/crates/bevy_pbr/src/render/utils.wgsl#L4) module, and there are even more in the [`shadplay::common::common`](src/shader_utils/common.wgsl), you can see examples of these throughout the shaders in `assets/shaders`.
