scripts/README.md, before:

# shadplay scripts

```sh
/scripts
├── file-and-func.py
├── make-gif-example.sh
├── make-bevy-shaderdoc.py
├── reset-2d.py
├── reset-3d.py
├── screenshots-to-gallery.py
├── search-bevy-codebase-for.sh
├── update-gallery.py
└── wgsl-case-changer.py

```

| Script Name | Description |
|-------------|-------------|
| file_and_func.py |  This is a script that pulls the filenames/function pairings from the bevy sourcecode.
| `file_and_func.py` |  This is a script that pulls the filenames/function pairings from the bevy sourcecode.
|
| `make-gif-example.sh` | Shows how one _may_ make a `.gif` from the output of gif-capture-mode, see main `../README.md` |
| `make_bevy_shaderdoc.py` | creates a single markdown document with _**all**_ the Bevy codebase's `wgsl` |
| `reset-2d.py` | Resets the 2d shader (useful if you want to try again from the default). |
| `reset-3d.py` | Resets the 3d shader (useful if you want to try again from the default). |
| `screenshots-to-gallery.py` | Moves shader screenshots you've created into markdown documents that pairs the code that generated them and said screenshot. |
| `search-bevy-codebase-for.sh` | An example of something that may help you search the bevy codebase faster (if the shader doc generated by `make_bevy_shaderdoc.py` isn't helpful) |
| `update-gallery.py` | updates the gallery's `README.md` |
| `wgsl-case-changer.py` | go between `snake_case` and `CamelCase`, rusty

Commit message:

wip: we can squeeze in the bevy cli linting tool into this one i think...

scripts/README.md, after:

# shadplay scripts

```sh
 scripts
├──  file-and-func.py
├──  install-bevy-cli.ps1
├──  link-check.py
├──  make-bevy-shaderdoc.py
├──  make-gif-example.sh
├──  README.md
├──  reset-2d.py
├──  reset-3d.py
├──  screenshots-to-gallery.py
├──  search-bevy-codebase-for.sh
├──  update-gallery.py
└──  wgsl-case-changer.py

```

| Script Name                   | Description                                                                                                                                       |
| ----------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `install-bevy-cli.ps1`        | Installs the `bevy` cli tool, and the `bevy_lint` one too.                                                                                        |
| `file_and_func.py`            | This is a script that pulls the filenames/function pairings from the bevy sourcecode.                                                             |
| `file_and_func.py`            | This is a script that pulls the filenames/function pairings from the bevy sourcecode.                                                             |
| `make-gif-example.sh`         | Shows how one _may_ make a `.gif` from the output of gif-capture-mode, see main `../README.md`                                                    |
| `make_bevy_shaderdoc.py`      | creates a single markdown document with _**all**_ the Bevy codebase's `wgsl`                                                                      |
| `reset-2d.py`                 | Resets the 2d shader (useful if you want to try again from the default).                                                                          |
| `reset-3d.py`                 | Resets the 3d shader (useful if you want to try again from the default).                                                                          |
| `screenshots-to-gallery.py`   | Moves shader screenshots you've created into markdown documents that pairs the code that generated them and said screenshot.                      |
| `search-bevy-codebase-for.sh` | An example of something that may help you search the bevy codebase faster (if the shader doc generated by `make_bevy_shaderdoc.py` isn't helpful) |
| `update-gallery.py`           | updates the gallery's `README.md`                                                                                                                 |
| `wgsl-case-changer.py`        | go between `snake_case` and `CamelCase`, rusty                                                                                                    |
